Good morning and welcome today to
the administering MySQL database.
My name is Chris Spalazzo and
I'm in developer relations and
I work very closely with our good
friends at MySQL and Live World.
Today we're going to have
two speakers talk to you.
One is going to be JD Duncan who's
a consulting engineer from MySQL who
will be showing you a number
of different tools on how to do
administration with your MySQL database.
The other is going to be Bruce Dembecki
who will be showing you a real-world
deployment of how Live World uses
MySQL running on XSERVs to make
all their products available.
So without any further ado,
let me introduce to you
JD Duncan from MySQL.
JD, come on up.
Hi, I'm John David Duncan.
People know me as JD.
I'm a consulting engineer for MySQL.
I'm based here in San Francisco.
I'm really only going to talk
to you for a few minutes.
I'm going to talk about
in administering MySQL land
about tools that are available
really in two groups of tools.
The first is administration in the
sense of looking at your data structure,
creating users and grants,
kind of basic essential DBA tasks.
The second set of tools
are monitoring tools.
Things you use after a database server
is in production to keep an eye on it.
After that,
after just a few minutes of that,
I will turn it over to
Bruce from Live World,
who can talk about real-world
experiences doing this.
So the administration world in
MySQL begins with the command line tools.
These are shipped as part
of the database server.
Everybody who has MySQL running has them.
And if you've ever done
anything with the database,
they're really the first thing you use.
There are a good two dozen of these
that you download with the package.
The most important, MySQL,
is the MySQL command line tool.
You simply use it for
interactive queries of any sort.
And then the rest of them
are more specialized.
A couple of the more significant ones,
MySQL Admin provides a kind of scriptable
interface for command line tasks.
Things like stopping the server.
giving grants.
MySQL dump you use to export your
database and can be used to make backups.
And then there's one called MySQL binlog
that's an important utility for
managing your replication slaves
and can also be used to take a backup
and do point in time recovery for it.
And then there are a
bunch more after that.
MySQL internally has a small team of
developers who create graphical tools.
And these are also available
for free there at MySQL.com.
The more advanced one is
called MySQL Administrator.
It runs on Windows and
on Linux and on Macs.
It's a very, very nice looking kind
of baseline graphical
administration tool for databases.
I'll show it to you
in just a minute here.
And I'll also show you
MySQL Query Browser,
which is more a tool along the lines
of 4D or Access for for actually
generating ad hoc queries and looking
at your data and manipulating your data.
The team that creates these
has a few more things going on.
They've got a nice
MySQL migration toolkit.
It doesn't run on Mac.
I can't show it to you right now.
And they've got a whole
schedule of future projects.
So from there, let's go to the demo.
We're here in my laptop.
This terminal window right here
should probably be familiar to just
about everyone who's ever used MySQL.
Here on my laptop,
I'm kind of cutting edge.
I've got a MySQL 5 server running.
One of the newer things in this
tool that came along with MySQL 4.1,
which a lot of people don't know about
and probably will be happy to see,
is interactive help.
So I
Now you've always been able to
type help and get client-side
help just in the tool.
But now you can type help contents,
and you actually get server-side help.
And if we're interested
in administration,
you can type help administration
and get a list of topics.
And we're actually going
to go help create user.
And we get the syntax
for create user command.
And I'm actually going to create one.
So there's the MySQL command line
tool with its new help feature.
Now let's actually get
into the graphical tools,
go into MySQL Administrator,
and look at this user we've just created.
This is the main screen
of MySQL Administrator.
tells me that I'm connected to a
MySQL 503 alpha server via local host.
That tells me the version
of my client library.
My operating systems on the client
end says that the server is running.
Just a sort of basic overview screen.
And I'm going to go
over here to accounts.
And I see a number of these
users that I've been creating.
Let's delete one or two of them.
I'll just click on the minus
down here to delete a user.
Here's the one I had just created,
I think, the WWDC1.
I'll actually create
another user in here.
Now a user in MySQL always has a host,
so I have to go to these
little tabs down here.
Say that I'm creating a user at any host.
[Transcript missing]
And here we are.
I think that user administration
is probably the most important
feature of these graphical tools.
And that even as a person with a
Unix background and a really command
line oriented way of doing things,
I know that grant syntax is awkward.
And that important
production database systems,
you really want a more powerful
tool along the lines of this
for your administration.
And this even in our intent is a
baseline sort of administration tool.
We rely on MySQL as a company
relies on third party vendors to
create more powerful tools for you.
I'll go into another capability
of MySQL administrator here.
I've gone to backup and I'll show a
little bit about database backups.
Here I have a backup project.
The project is called System Tables,
and my System Tables backup project is
a way of backing up the MySQL database,
the system database,
with all the tables in it.
So I'm just going to go
down here to start backup.
It generates a file name for me
with a date and time stamp in it.
Builds me a backup.
This runs MySQL dump,
if you're familiar with it.
I go into the next pane to restore.
I'm going to choose a
file to restore from.
I think here's the backup I just made,
system tables 2005, '06, '09.
I'm going to open it.
And I've got a dump of
the whole database there,
but say all I really want
This is the big MySQL 5 system tables
with stored procedures in them.
All I really want are my user
tables and my host tables,
so I select them.
I've restored the backup.
One more thing I'll show
you in administrator.
is the catalog's view.
Just gives me a
A view of all the databases I have,
the tables in the databases.
So here, this one's called US Geo.
It's got some
United States geographical data.
In this tool in Administrator,
I can see my data structure,
but I can't do anything with it.
To actually use that data,
I'll go over here into Query Browser,
the lightning bolt.
Here's my US Geo table.
Again, I'm running MySQL 5,
so I have a table called County that's
got all the counties in the country,
and then I have a view built on that
table called SC County that only
contains counties in South Carolina.
I double-click on this.
And up here in the query box
at the top of the screen,
the tool has generated a query for me.
I click on execute and I get my data.
Now, MySQL Query Browser,
the Mac version of it was
just released this week.
It's in alpha.
It's actually missing the most powerful
tool bar on here that would allow you to
create more complex queries and joins.
So as the future versions are released
over the next weeks and months,
we'll get the full
functionality in this tool.
This is our early release
of MySQL Query Browser.
So those are the three
tools I wanted to show you,
and let's go back to the presentation,
please.
Those are our tools
provided here at MySQL.
We really rely on other
companies to create more
powerful administration tools,
either as commercial products.
And this one I wanted to point out,
Navicat.
It's from Navicat.com.
It's a really nice looking tool
on OS X and pretty powerful.
And then as an open source project
and a web-based administration tool,
phpMyAdmin is very commonly used and
certainly has a lot of functionality.
So that's the look at
administration type tools,
managing users,
looking at your data structure.
And from there we go on to the
tools you use when a database
environment is running in production,
really for two functions.
One is monitoring, monitoring performance
and health of the system.
And most of the best general purpose
network monitoring software in the
open source world is based on RRD.
It's all from rrdtool.org.
Here's a sample strip chart
of some monitoring you can get
out of a MySQL database server.
Other open source projects,
if you want to be alerted,
say if your database server goes down or
if your slave has stopped replicating,
Nagios from Nagios.org is a
multi-function general purpose
network monitoring system that
MySQL plugs into very well.
Also, a very young tool created by
the internal staff at Google is
the Google MySQL Monitoring
and Investigation Module.
It's what they use internally
for their MySQL servers and it's
available from code.google.com.
I'll talk a little bit about
where to go for more information.
The MySQL Developer Zone, dev.mysql.com.
There are a large number of
forums on real specific topics.
I recommend them highly because
you can usually find just the
right audience for something
particular you're interested in.
These are pretty new.
Mailing lists,
we've had for a much longer time.
Really,
the general MySQL mailing list goes
back 10 years and it's on everything.
But the fact is the volume of it
is so high it's kind of unreadable.
I find it unreadable.
But there's still a lot of traffic going
on there for questions and answers.
There's a bugs database
at bugs.mysql.com.
And there's the online manual,
which is always the most
up-to-date MySQL documentation.
So MySQL is a company.
has a professional services staff
and has a subscription services model
that you can buy per server per year.
We call it MySQL Network.
It gives you access to our support
team to support levels up to 24
by 7 and to a set of tools that
we hope are valuable before you
have a support kind of incident,
like a knowledge base,
things that you can use
before you can get in trouble.
We also have a consulting staff.
I'm sometimes part of it.
We do things like
architecture and design,
performance tuning engagements.
With that, I want to turn it over to
Bruce Dembecki from Live World,
who does this stuff every day,
runs a whole lot of websites,
and can talk about a
real mission-critical,
complex, multi-server,
master-slave MySQL situation.
Thanks, JD.
Well, good morning.
My name's Bruce.
I'm from LiveWorld.
There's a lot of stuff that
we'll be talking about,
and if you want any of the information
that I've got or some help with some
of the tools that I show you later,
feel free to email me afterwards,
bruce at liveworld.com.
Well, good morning.
My name's Bruce.
I'm from LiveWorld.
There's a lot of stuff that
we'll be talking about,
and if you want any of the information
that I've got or some help with some
of the tools that I show you later,
feel free to email me afterwards,
bruce at liveworld.com.
The first thing we're going
to cover very briefly is,
you know, why Live World?
What is it that I'm doing on this stage?
Why am I here and not the
folks at MySQL or Apple?
Then we're going to take a little
look at our database servers.
Different versions of MySQL,
and I'm not talking now about whether
it should be 4.0 or 4.1 or 5.0,
but rather, whose binary should you use?
Should it be Apple's binary,
MySQL's binary?
Should you build your own?
and then we'll spend quite a bit of
time on deploying MySQL and the various
issues that get involved in that.
So, for starters, why LiveWorld?
What are we doing here?
Who are we?
I'm going to read the slide for a minute.
This is about the only time
I'm going to do that today.
We are a leading provider
of collaborative community
solutions since 1996.
That pretty much means we do discussion
boards and chat rooms and a variety of
other community tools for our clients.
Before 1996,
everybody on our executive team
and most of our senior engineers
worked at Apple actually,
in the online group at Apple,
and they were responsible for
bringing you things like Apple Link,
eWorld, and before that the
Apple Link Personal Edition,
which went on to become a different
product called America Online.
So we know a lot about online
community and online stuff.
We are a public and profitable company.
We work closely with MySQL regularly.
When we discover problems and issues,
we share them with MySQL.
And to date,
we've had half a dozen major bugs,
and every single one has had a fix in the
code within 24 hours of us reporting it.
So we're very impressed with MySQL.
We love working with them.
They fix problems quickly and very well.
We actually have a very high
volume series of sites and we have
a high redundancy configuration.
We're a little bit old fashioned in that
we deploy everything in at least pairs so
that if something breaks there's another
one sitting there right away ready to go.
And just by the pure nature of who
we do our discussion boards for,
we have a very high profile
and high volume client base.
To give you some ideas,
these are some of the
companies that we've worked
with over the last few years.
If you were to go to eBay.com and go to
visit any of the community tools such
as the discussion boards or the clubs,
that would be actually running on
our servers out of our data center.
Same with HBO, BEA, and so on.
Some examples: BEA's newsgroups,
the developer-to-developer support area.
In a previous life,
it was just a newsgroup.
BEA wanted to do something more,
so we actually turned it into
a discussion board and linked
it back into an NTP server.
It's still available as a
newsfeed if you want it,
but now it's also an interactive
web discussion board and it
has an RSS feed if we want to
step another generation ahead.
eBay has a clubs tool that they
deploy in several different countries.
This one is eBay Germany's clubs tool.
eBay discussion boards,
in this case in China.
eBay US, QVC, A&E.
and a variety of other things.
Dove, the soap company,
they have an interesting program
that they launched quite a few
months back and they're rolling
it out into different countries.
So far we're at 27 different countries
and I believe there's another 14
to go live in the next few months.
And the basic concept is that they're
talking about beauty products.
You know what?
When it comes to beauty products,
it's all Greek to me.
and Expedia.
I guess some of you have used Expedia
and you might have looked at a hotel.
You've noticed over the last
few months when you're looking
for a hotel on Expedia,
they're now giving you user
feedback on that particular hotel.
So that's actually coming out
of our servers and it's built on
database discussion about technology.
While we have other products that
work with chats and online events,
the focus of our discussion this morning
is going to be on our discussion boards
because that's where we're looking
at our MySQL statistics and where
we're using the database most heavily.
Some facts from last month's numbers.
We have 18 active discussion board
clients and 91 live discussion boards.
They service 30 countries
and 20 different languages.
So we've had a lot of fun and
games with character sets.
Last month we did 84
million dynamic page views.
It's very important to consider this.
When you're doing a discussion board and
you're creating each page on the fly,
customize to each user saying, "Welcome,
Bruce.
You are logged in." Every time
you do one of those pages,
it's quite a lot of work
to put together the page.
Not just 84 million pages,
84 million dynamic pages.
In Database Land we did that with
four and a bit MySQL servers.
That's 1400 queries per second in May,
which is,
I don't know how many billion queries,
but it was a lot.
With our 91 discussion boards we
have 91 databases and a whole bunch
of backups every day and server
snapshots that we do in our database.
We'll talk some more about that.
There's a growing trend in the
development community to develop on
Macintosh and deploy on another platform.
It's quite common when we were
at the MySQL conference in April,
just about 60% of the laptops were Macs.
I'm sure that number is a little
different at this conference.
Despite the high number of
Mac laptops at the MySQL conference,
there are very few people
deploying on Macintosh servers.
We actually do,
and we believe that we have got the
largest discussion boards deployed
on Mac servers in the world.
So our servers are by and
by 8 gigabyte G5 XSERVs.
I want to talk for a minute
about error correcting memory
that comes in the XSERVs.
It makes an incredible difference.
When we first switched to
Mac servers for our databases,
we went with G5 towers because
it was a couple of months before
the XSERVs were going to be
available and we couldn't wait.
So after about a year,
they started to become a little
bit unstable and they would crash
[Transcript missing]
Our hard drive setup is a little bit
different than what you would expect.
We bought these machines with
RAID cards and three drives with the
expectation that we would deploy a
RAID 5 redundant setup on our drives.
When it comes down to it,
RAID 5 is very good.
It's typically fast and it's got some
overhead associated with the fact that
you're providing the redundant features.
On three drives that you
would have in an XSERV,
it becomes a little slow.
It's twice as slow as the regular hard
drive because of the RAID 5 overhead.
That was slower than we could live with.
It's not the same problem if you have
a larger RAID with six or seven drives,
say in an XSERV RAID,
but on three drives you don't have enough
spindles to make up for that overhead.
So we chopped and changed with different
variations to see what would work best.
We eventually settled on this.
We took the middle drive and we
connected it back into the system
bus and it runs the operating system.
It's where all our logs live and
MySQL isn't really using that as
heavily as it's using the data drives.
The other two drives are mirrored
on the hardware RAID card,
which gives us the
redundancy that we want.
And because it's the hardware
RAID card that's doing the mirroring,
we have no overhead on the
operating system in making sure
that mirroring is happening.
So this works very well.
It's the equivalent in terms
of speed of a single drive.
and it certainly is performing well
enough to handle our loads at the moment.
Our loads right now are very low on CPU.
Over time, as our sites grow,
that tends to increase.
We know that in the future,
I/O will become a problem again.
Also, in the future,
we're going to be taking advantage
of 16 gigabytes of RAM that's
available now for the XServe.
Apple, in April,
some of you might have heard they
released a new operating system.
It's got 64-bit support,
which we think is
wonderful in database land.
And at the same time,
most people didn't hear that
they actually certified 2
gigabyte RAMs for the XServe.
So we actually ordered our first...
[Transcript missing]
The other thing in the future,
towards the end of the year,
we'll start deploying XServe RAIDs here.
We know that as our load increases,
the I.O.
will become a problem.
At that point,
we already have some XServe RAIDs in
the data center doing other stuff.
We know that the RAID 5 solution
there will be three to four times
faster than what we're doing now.
So we're not worried about I.O.
The message here that I was
trying to deliver is...
[Transcript missing]
So if I talk about our database
architecture for a few minutes,
we deploy everything in pairs.
Two things that are important here.
One is the two servers are
replicating backwards and
forwards between each other.
Any change to the data on one
is replicated on the other.
and vice versa.
So any change that happens
here is replicated on the other
machine very quickly using
the MySQL replication system.
And we're very pleased with that.
It works well.
It's reliable and it's a little fast,
which can be a problem sometimes.
We also,
right now on most of our systems,
have multiple instances using
MySQL D multi that comes from MySQL.
We use two or three instances on
our 8 gigabyte machines because
we're still waiting for 64-bit
binaries from MySQL and Apple.
And we have some tests that we've done,
but we'll go into that a little later.
So for now,
we might have two or three instances
on our 8 gigabyte machines to take
advantage of the fact that machines can
handle the load and they have the memory.
In front of our database servers,
between our application servers
and our database servers,
we actually use hardware load balancers.
That's a very unusual statement,
and it comes as a result of
the troubles we were having
last year with our G5 towers.
Out of frustration with nothing else that
we could think of to fix the problem,
we had just upgraded our load balancers,
so we took our old ones,
we threw them in front
of the database servers.
The upshot was when one
of our towers crashed,
the load balancer would decide that
the traffic should go somewhere
else and failover automatically.
We stopped having stability
problems and issues as far as our
application servers were concerned.
We were very excited by that.
We still wanted to fix
the crashing servers,
but at least we'd mitigated the problem.
MySQL Database
Now that we have mitigated the
problem completely by using XSERVs
and the error correcting memory,
we've decided to leave the
hardware load balancers in place.
They offer a good service to us
and it's a lot easier for me when
I'm working on these things if
I can take a server offline in the
middle of the day than having to
do it in the middle of the night.
Don't get to do it very often,
but in theory I could.
Behind all of this,
we also have MySQL Admin.
MySQL Admin does one-way replication
from our active server pair.
And we use that for doing
things like reports,
backups, and our email watches.
People often subscribe to threads
on the discussion board saying,
"Send me an email every day
with a summary of all the things
that happened on this thread."
Those things can happen
off the production systems.
So, there's some questions about
whose binary should I use.
Apple has a binary that's
included with OS X Server.
MySQL makes a binary which
is very easy to use also.
And, of course,
being an open source product,
you can download the source from
MySQL and build your own binary.
So I just want to talk briefly about
the three binaries that are out there,
or the three options that are
easily available to people.
First of all, the Apple build.
It's right there.
It's out of the box with OS X Server.
And go with the theme of the week,
it just works.
It's there.
You turn it on.
It's great.
There has, during the years with 10.3,
been a tendency for the Apple version
to be a couple of builds behind
where MySQL's release version is.
Depending on your opinion,
that can be a good thing or a bad thing.
In Tata-based land,
you want to have a rock-solid
server and you don't want to be
upgrading it every time there's a
new version from the manufacturer.
If it's working and working well,
don't mess with it.
There's also the occasion where
there might be a new bug introduced
that you just have to avoid.
And the only way to get
around that is to upgrade it,
which means you might have to move
away from Apple's binary until
Apple catches up with a newer version.
So depending on that, could be good,
could be bad.
MySQL also makes a binary.
It's easy to download from mysql.com.
You can always get the latest
release version from MySQL.
It's easy to install.
It's just a package installer.
Double click on it,
you get a typical install window.
You can also install an admin
switch to turn it on or off
from the system preferences.
The problem that commonly arises when
you're using a MySQL binary is that
Apple's binary is still in OSX Server.
It's in a different place.
Apple installs their
binaries in User Bin.
MySQL installs their
binaries in User Local.
All of your systems,
if you're using a terminal,
will have user bin very
early in the path statement.
So when you type MySQL at
the command line,
even if you've added MySQL to your path,
chances are user bin is
in the path before then,
and you'll be using Apple's binary.
It's not so much a problem when
you're launching a server that's
done with a script which usually
knows exactly where it's looking,
but when you're using
the command line tools,
you can find that you're using a
different version than your server,
which is rarely a problem,
but it is something to consider.
We avoid this problem by deleting
the MySQL binaries from user
bin and setting up symlinks from
there to the MySQL binaries.
Finally,
there's the option of do it yourself.
You can download the source code from
MySQL and compile your own binaries.
It requires a knowledge
of compiling and building,
and it's not something that under normal
circumstances we would consider doing.
It would be difficult for me to
explain to eBay that their sites
went offline because Bruce built this
copy of MySQL with his own compiler.
MySQL gave us a fix in
the source code overnight.
The only way we could deploy it
was to actually download the source
and build it ourselves because
it was still a few weeks away
from MySQL releasing a new binary.
So that's an example of a special need.
Another example might be if you
had a server with 8 or 16 gigabytes
of memory and you wanted to take
advantage of Tiger 64-bit capabilities,
you might want to download
and build a 64-bit binary.
I know that we have.
We had some help from the guys at
Apple that build Apple's binary.
MySQL that build MySQL's binary.
And we sort of put the
information together and we
built our own 64-bit binary.
And it's great.
It works.
We have it deployed in a very small
scale on our smallest data set on
one of the servers in the pair.
So we have some first-hand experience
running 64-bit MySQL on Tiger.
We're not going to deploy it on a
large scale until MySQL's binary or
Apple's binary becomes available for
all the reasons that we talked about.
So we're here talking about databases,
and I feel obliged, like any good person
presenting a database speech,
just to mention,
don't forget to tune your
database when you set it up.
Typical things that you will
do is look at memory settings,
make sure you're allocating the
right amount of memory for your
needs based on what you need and
what your server is capable of and
what else your server is doing.
In our case,
we have dedicated MySQL servers,
so we're allocating
lots and lots of memory.
But some people have a server
that will be running Apache,
PHP, MySQL, Mail Server, DNS,
a few other things.
So you can't always allocate all
the memory in the machine to MySQL.
What I'm suggesting is that you
think about what does MySQL need,
what does the rest of the machine need,
what's available,
and make some decisions based on that.
Once you have the total memory set,
set the individual caches.
In MySQL, there's a query cache,
there's the MyISM key buffer.
There's a whole bunch of different
caches that will affect what's
happening and how much memory you
allocate to each will be important.
Also, choose your database engine.
MySQL has a model where you
can have different database
engines that do different things.
The default engine in
MySQL is called MyISM,
and most people just forge
right ahead with that.
There's also an engine included with
any download of MySQL called InnoDB,
which is a transaction-capable
database engine.
It also has some other
performance improvements,
and generally speaking,
unless there are special
needs which dictate otherwise,
InnoDB usually outperforms MyISM and
the other tables for most needs.
So unless you have a special need
for one of the other table types,
one of the other engine types,
InnoDB is the best choice in most cases.
Finally,
don't forget to index your database.
MySQL has something
called the slow query log,
which is very useful.
You should enable it and you
should review the output of that.
It will essentially tell you
the exact query of any query
that took longer than n seconds.
By default, n is 10.
And if you've got queries
that are running 10 seconds,
you really need to look at why that
is and what they're doing and perhaps
find ways to improve your indexes,
find ways to improve your query.
The other thing that can help
when you're looking at indexes is
MySQL's built-in explain command.
You can take any query,
throw explain at the front of it,
and the MySQL optimizer will
tell you what it would do if
it was really doing the query.
It will tell you what
indexes were available,
what indexes it would choose,
how many rows of data it would
look at to answer your query.
So that can be helpful in
managing your indexes and coming
up with the best solution.
So now I want to talk a little bit more.
We mentioned our MySQL admin machine.
I'd like to talk about production
and administration tasks.
In our case,
production machines have to be fast.
It's very important.
We have a lot of load on those machines,
and they need to be fast,
they need to be quick.
That's important to us.
Administration tasks have
a tendency to be slow.
They usually involve a lot of number
crunching and going through things.
The mix of the two can
be quite unpleasant.
It will often, in our case,
cause problems for our users,
which in turn cause
problems for our clients,
problems for our sysadmins.
MySQL Admin is our solution
because we separated the
production and the admin tasks.
MySQL Admin runs many instances of MySQL.
It copies from each database pair that
is running every instance of MySQL.
It does this delayed
replication from that server.
MySQL Admin is the machine
that we use to run reports,
to run backups,
to figure out how many users posted
message yesterday so that when
our clients ask this information,
they expect to see it and they can get it
in a timely manner but without impacting
the users on the production systems.
There's another difference here in
that MySQL Admin has the full logs.
The production servers have less logs.
The production servers don't
actually need the logs,
they're just entering the
information as they happen.
But they don't process it,
so the information isn't there.
We keep it elsewhere.
I'm going to give you an
example of a script that we use.
There's an interesting challenge here.
Logs and stats are space consuming.
Their performance is inhibiting
because of their size.
Over months and years,
with the sort of access and
hits that we're getting,
they add up to a lot of space.
And just adding a new record to
a big table like that means it
has to make some changes to the
index and can be quite slow.
So our challenge is to reduce the
size of the logs on the production
servers and at the same time keep the
full set of logs on the admin server.
With our replication
model that MySQL has,
every time you make a change to
the data on the production server,
it ultimately gets replicated
through to the admin server.
So we have to be careful
that we don't lose that data.
I've written a quick script here.
I'm not a programmer, so I tend to write
things in shell script.
And for the more serious
developers out there,
I apologize that we're not
doing something smarter.
But the reality is,
for administering the databases,
this is all you need.
The MySQL client has all
the smarts to do with MySQL,
and you can activate that
from a shell script and say,
"Give me this piece of
information that I need."
And then you can manipulate it.
So it doesn't need heavy-hitting
programming skills to
create these sort of tools.
In this case, our script says,
"Tell me the time now in seconds."
We then munze that a little
bit and we sort of take off
seven days worth of seconds.
We multiply it by a thousand because
our timestamps are in milliseconds.
So now I have a number which
is the time a week ago,
as it would be represented in
a timestamp on our database.
We then ask the server to give
me a list of database names
that are discussion boards.
And we go through that
list one at a time,
deleting all of the logs.
The most important thing here in
this lower query that's in yellow
is the start of the query which
says set SQL log bin equals zero.
That command will tell the MySQL server,
for anything associated with this
connection and this connection only,
don't write my changes to the binary log.
The binary log is where changes in
data are replicated to the slave.
So if this connection doesn't write
its changes to the binary log,
this following command will only
happen on the production machine.
It won't happen on the admin machine.
It also won't happen on the
other production machine
that is a partner here.
So you have to remember to run
the script on both servers.
By doing this,
we can keep the log files down to
a reasonable size in our production
servers and still give us all the data
that we need in the admin servers.
So let's talk about replication.
MySQL has a wonderful replication model.
It's fast, it's reliable,
and it synchronizes the data.
It works by not sending
data between the machines,
but sharing any query
that changes the data.
So if the two machines start off with
the same data and any query changes the
data here will be executed here too,
data should be the same.
The problem we have occasionally
is that it's a little bit too fast.
It's rare that this replication
process gets more than a
second behind in our servers,
and that's plenty good enough for us.
[Transcript missing]
The thing with replication is before
I can get to the other production
machine and stop that from happening,
they're already gone.
: MySQL database is a very
complex and complex database.
The answer is to go to backup,
but that can be time consuming.
In our case, on our smallest data set,
it takes four hours to go from last
night's backup to being live again.
That was a big problem for us and
we weren't happy with four hours
of downtime and all the data lost
between last night and this afternoon.
We came up with a system which
we call delayed replication.
It's a modification of
MySQL's replication based on
the fact that MySQL uses two
threads to run replication.
The first change is made,
it downloads it and it writes
it to the slave machine.
The second thread executes those queries.
Both of them are always listening
to the log files coming from
the master and coming from the
I/O thread so that they happen very,
very quickly.
But because that nature of
how replication is built,
we have an ability to manage
those two threads and as a result,
we can do something that
looks kind of like this.
Over a period of time,
if we start at 4 o'clock,
we're going to tell the slave
to stop executing SQL queries
coming from the master.
And then at 4.01,
we're going to tell the slave to
start copying changes from the master.
That'll go on for a few minutes.
This is a small amount of data because
you're not moving the data itself,
you're moving the queries
to change the data.
So over a high-speed network,
I can copy all of the data that
might have changed data in two or
three days in a matter of seconds.
So only running this for four
minutes is no problem at all.
And then at 4.05,
we stop the input-output thread.
We stop reading changes
that happen on the master.
We then do nothing for five minutes,
just so I've got a buffer of
time that I can really get to
the other machine and stop it.
And finally, at 10 past 4,
we will turn on the SQL thread and
start processing those changes again.
The impact here is that
between 4.01 and 4.05,
we're reading all the changes that were
made on the server between 2--on the
master server between 2.05 and 4.05.
Then we do nothing for five minutes.
Nothing changes anywhere on our
slave with the delayed replication.
And at 10 past 4,
we start executing those queries.
This cycle repeats every two hours,
and the upshot is
I have a series of two-hour snapshots
because I can go back in our binary
logs to the specific points where
these start and stop things occurred.
And at any time I can say, stop,
don't do anything.
I just made a really stupid mistake
over here on the production servers.
Or some other thing happens.
Databases corrupt sometimes
without user error.
It doesn't happen often,
but it can happen.
When these things happen,
it's nice to be able to go to a
recent backup without having lost
lots of data since all of last night,
without having to go through the whole
process of recovering from a backup,
packing, unpacking, etc.
So we found when this happens,
instead of a four-hour switch
from last night's backup and
losing data for the last 13 hours,
we have a half-hour switch to go to
the last snapshot on MySQL admin,
and we've only lost no more
than two hours' worth of data.
Okay.
So we found when this happens,
instead of a four-hour switch
from last night's backup and
losing data for the last 13 hours,
we have a half-hour switch to go to
the last snapshot on MySQL admin,
and we've only lost no more
than two hours' worth of data.
The method we use is unusual and
is not common in terms of what
people put between their application
servers and their database servers.
We had an extra set of load balances.
We solved a problem with
our G5 towers last year,
and we liked it so much we kept it.
It's very effective.
It works great.
It's probably not something most
people are going to consider,
but we'd highly recommend it if you
happen to have the hardware available.
The method we use is unusual and
is not common in terms of what
people put between their application
servers and their database servers.
We had an extra set of load balances.
We solved a problem with
our G5 towers last year,
and we liked it so much we kept it.
[Transcript missing]
Another way of using
failover is now with drivers.
The JDBC driver from MySQL has a
number of features that allow you to
failover in the event of something
happening to the database server
you think you should be talking to.
That includes the ability to set
an auto-reconnect flag so that if
your database connection goes away,
you should reconnect.
The other way of using failover
is to set a load balancer.
That's actually important for us
with our hardware load balancer
because when MySQL 1 crashes,
the connection is lost,
and even though the load balancer
sends the traffic request to MySQL 2,
you need to reconnect in order to do it.
, and I'm going to talk
about the MySQL 2.0.
That's actually important for us
with our hardware load balancer
because when MySQL 1 crashes,
the connection is lost,
and even though the load balancer
sends the traffic request to MySQL 2,
you need to reconnect in order to do it.
[Transcript missing]
They also have an option
where you can have the primary
server plus a secondary server,
which is accessed in a read-only mode.
If, for example,
you have our situation with MySQL Admin,
which is copying data from
the production servers,
but it's never actually
sending any changes here back
to the production servers,
we would never want one of our
application servers to change the data
on MySQL Admin because it wouldn't
get reflected in production land.
So by setting the JDBC driver to
access via read-only mode means that
you can still keep your discussion
board up to some extent because
you can read what's in there,
you just can't write the changes.
Fault tolerance is an
interesting question.
A lot of people have different views
of what's important in fault tolerance.
And I'll try and...
I'll try and give you an example.
A bank has a certain opinion of fault
tolerance that would be different
than we do doing a discussion board.
With a bank,
if you're dealing with people's money,
you have a certain responsibility,
and your main focus is
going to be data integrity.
We obviously are concerned
about data integrity,
but the reality is if the guys on
HBO are talking about what's on Sex and
the City tomorrow and we lost the post,
it's not the end of the world.
I'm not suggesting we
don't take it seriously.
I'm just thinking that
from our point of view,
fault tolerance is more important
that we have consistent uptime than
it is that we have consistent data.
Turns out that all the methods of dealing
with fault tolerance apply to both camps.
Wherever you fall in this line,
whether it be data consistency or uptime,
fault tolerance,
all of these areas are going to
be important to you in either way.
So in SQL land,
everyone who's familiar with SQL will
know that transactional queries are
a critical part of fault tolerance,
more so for the banks than for us,
but still for us as well.
MySQL includes a
transactional-based engine,
which is in ODB,
which we mentioned earlier,
and is a very robust
solution to this area.
We also have replication as part
of any fault tolerance program,
keeping more than one set of
data critically important.
Not just last night's backup,
but actually having two
live copies of the data.
Failover,
if you have more than one copy of data,
will be an important part of
the fault tolerance program.
As will backups.
And if you do a backup and if your
interest is in data integrity,
if I have to roll to last night's backup,
I want to make sure that we're logging
everything so that I can recover
all the changes since last night.
As will backups.
And if you do a backup and if your
interest is in data integrity,
if I have to roll to last night's backup,
I want to make sure that we're logging
everything so that I can recover
all the changes since last night.
A very important part of
managing your MySQL servers,
administering your MySQL servers,
or any servers in your database,
in your data center, involves monitoring.
You need to know everything that's
going on in your servers all the time.
You need to have a monitoring
and alerting system.
You need to know what's happening.
You need to be told if there's a problem.
There's a number of different tests that
you will need to do on a database server.
We have ultimately
built all our own tests.
We recommend this.
It's a good practice because you can
customize those tests to what's important
to your deployment and your setup.
Again, as with the hardware,
I showed you what our hardware was like.
I wasn't suggesting you all
need to use that hardware.
I was trying to help illustrate
the thought process you need to go
through when assessing your own needs.
By building your own tests
to monitor the database,
you can come up with tests that
tell you if the server is up or not.
In the case of MySQL,
it runs typically on port 3306,
so a ping of port 3306 might be a good
test to tell you if MySQL is running.
It's not really a great test,
but for some people it's enough.
Active thread count is
a great test for us.
I'll talk more about
that in just a minute.
It tells us how many threads are actually
processing requests at the moment.
Replication status.
Is replication running or not running?
Another test you might want to do is
the database actually retrieving data.
It's one thing to do a ping on port 3306.
That tells you something's listening
to the TCP stack on that port.
It's another thing to actually say, "Yo,
MySQL, are you there, dude?"
We do that by actually pulling
a piece of data out of an
InnoDB table that we have on the
server specifically for monitoring.
It's on all of our servers.
We put it in the MySQL database,
which JD will probably cringe at.
The MySQL database should be reserved
for MySQL administration tasks,
but we think of this as
an administration task,
so that's where we put it.
It has a single table called status,
which has one row in it.
That row says, "Okay, I'm
And we asked the database,
give us all the information
in the status table.
If it tells us okay,
we know that it's there.
We can text, we can match the string okay
in our monitoring system,
and as long as we see that, we're happy.
and it tells us the database
is both up and it's able to
retrieve information from InnoDB.
That can be important.
We've had cases in the past
where InnoDB has crashed
but MySQL is still running.
So if you're doing a test
of whether the server is up,
it's still there.
It can tell you about its
stats but it can't actually
pull any data out of InnoDB.
So it's not really running
well enough to be happy.
So those are the sort of tests
that you might want to look at.
I mentioned that we
look at thread counts.
That's important to us.
And it's a good measure of
what's happening in your system.
We have typically 200 to 300
connections to our database
server at any given moment.
And as you've probably worked
out by our numbers before,
we're doing about 300 queries
per second on any given instance.
We run a test to see how many
threads are active or how many
threads are actually running.
And that typically will come
back to be two or three threads.
That's all that's active
in any given snapshot.
We're still doing 300 queries per second.
They're just not running for very long.
And that's the way you want it to be.
You might find that if the
server is not performing well,
Those 300 threads that are
connected to the database are
going to start asking queries
that aren't getting rapid answers.
The active thread count
is going to start to grow.
It might grow to 7 or 8,
which would be okay in our case.
It might grow to 60 or 70,
which would be a sure
indication of a problem.
It might even grow to 300 or 400,
which is absolutely
certain there's a problem.
We developed a test.
Once we had a test, we tied it to TCP.
We used XINETD, and we associated this
script with this port number.
So anyone who hits port number...
10,000 on the server will
cause that script to run and
get the output of the script.
You can do this with
any number of scripts,
with any number of things.
XINETD is a wonderful tool for
executing scripts on your servers.
So now that we're doing that,
let's just look quickly
at the script again.
It's a shell script because I don't
know any of the other languages.
Be generous to call this a language.
Our script uses MySQL to show
the status where the number
of threads that are active.
Status like threads running.
We then munged that through a little
bit and we take all the output from
MySQL and we just collect the number.
So, an important piece of information
in that output from that script,
from that command to MySQL,
is the number of threads
that are running.
We turn that into an integer.
We create a string variable,
which will consist of the phrase,
good thread usage, then the number,
and...
Then we actually look at that and say,
okay, if the number is greater than 20,
we don't want to say good thread usage.
We'll change our string
to say high thread usage,
then the number, and we'll output that.
So the output of our script
is either good thread usage,
seven threads, or high thread usage,
28 threads, or 303 threads.
Any basic monitoring package we use in
the mapper is going to have a problem
determining from the number alone
whether it should be having a problem.
But we can easily match good as something
to say we're okay and not to worry.
And if we can match the text string high,
say if we get that word
high in our response,
the monitoring system should
go off and react accordingly.
Okay.
So, monitoring.
It's important that you use the
information that you collect.
[Transcript missing]
Once you get an alert,
there's another important step.
You have to take some action.
The action has to be appropriate.
It might be as simple
as restarting a server,
and it might be running a script that
might fix the problem all on its own.
It may even be you don't
have to do anything,
depending on the nature of the alert.
It's just a disk percentage full warning.
It may be at this point where you
don't have to do anything yet.
It's just good information to know.
It's important to set up a monitoring
system that will look at all the aspects
of what's going on in your data center,
and depending on each of
those different aspects,
react accordingly with different
types of alerts that should generate
from you and your operations
people different types of actions.
So to summarize where we are,
just to talk about things that
make a difference to us when
running MySQL in our data center,
make hardware choices that
make sense for your need.
I showed you the process we went through
when we looked at our disk needs for
our XSERVs and whether we should have
it all on RAID or do different things.
That's good for us.
What's good for us may
not be good for you.
We recognize that.
Hopefully you recognize that too.
Our needs are what our needs are and
your needs are going to be different.
So think about your needs.
Don't just buy this if
that's all you need.
Tune the database.
I'm not going to spend any time on it.
It's just basic.
Every time you hear someone
speak about databases,
they should be telling you to
set the memory and the indexes.
Separate the admin and
the production tasks.
If you're a high volume site,
you'll need to think
seriously about doing this.
Not everybody needs to.
Made a huge difference to us.
Depending on your size,
you might want to do this.
And then go through that
process of monitoring.
Test, alert, respond.
You need to know what's happening
and if something that you don't
want to be happening is happening,
you need to know about it and you
need to do something about it.
And the last bullet point here,
we didn't talk about a lot directly,
but we did implicitly.
And that is to automate things.
We showed you how we automated
the script that deletes the logs
from the production servers.
That's a huge time saver.
It runs every day.
We never have to worry about it.
And it just happens.
I don't have to worry about the
disk running out of space on
our production servers because
there's lots and lots of space.
MySQL Admin has all the logs,
but it also has a great big
XServe rate attached to it.
And we have to watch that
because the logs are very,
very big.
We can also automate our responses
to some of the monitoring issues.
In fact, we do.
We have a monitoring test that looks
to see if replication is on or off.
If it's off, the first thing it does is
activate a script which tells
that particular MySQL server,
turn on your replication.
and it repeats that three or four
times over a two-minute period.
If after two minutes
replication is still off,
then they'll trigger an alert which
will tell one of us because clearly
it's something that's beyond just
replication stopped and it started
again by the automatic system.
So find different ways
to automate what you can.
For more information, you can contact me,
Bruce.
Bruce is my name.
Liveworld is my company.
My email address falls from that,
bruce at liveworld.com.
Chris is going to come up
and talk a little bit more.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
There's a lot of other resources that you
can find information on for all of this,
including the WWDC 2005.